All right now time to discuss resistance and introduce Ohm's law.
So resistance we're talking about resists the flow of electrons so resistance.
Let's write that down to the flow of charge.
Bigger the resistance the more it resists.
It's harder for electrons to flow through that particular material or a taco conductors here.
And we remember what we said about conductors well in order to get electrons moving the battery or whatever
it is must set up an electric field in one direction.
If you set up an electric field in that direction electrons are going to move opposite in some drif
at some drif philosophy and the direction of the current is actually opposite of the electron flow and
that's what we call the current.
I all right now there is a relationship now between the electric field and the quantity we had called
J Our current density.
That's this.
Remember all of these things this is current density
right this down.
And remember that was current I divided by the cross-sectional area of our particular wire.
E was our electric field.
All right.
And the relationship between both of those is actually one form of Ohm's law which is maybe not the
most common form but let me write it down anyway.
Is that the electric field the bigger you make this electric field basically the more current You're
going to get.
But the relationship looks like this is that the magnitude of the electric field can be written as the
resistivity will define this in a minute multiplied by the current density.
It basically says that for many conductors that the electric field is proportional to the current density
and the constant of proportionality is a property that depends on the material.
And this is what we'd call the resistivity
for example copper will have a reserve Stephenie silver will have a resistivity any conductor will have
a particular resistivity any substance will have a resistivity.
So that's what it says that the electric field is directly proportional to the current density.
Now if I go on this side here and I substitute a couple of things let's get rid of current density and
let's replace it by definition the total current divided by the total area.
Let's see what this equation looks like says that the electric field is equal to my resists devotee
multiplied by the total current multiplied by that cross-sectional area.
OK so we're one step further.
Now it says that my electric field is directly proportional to the current and the constant of proportionality
in this case would be the resisting city divided by the area.
All right.
Now to produce an electric field let's assume that the electric field here is constant the way you produce
an electric field like this is you might apply a voltage on one side and a voltage on the other side.
You might apply a difference of voltage between the two sides.
You might make this one some Plus voltage you might make this one a negative voltage and that will produce
a potential difference right between the two points.
So if I make the PSI a positive voltage make this side a negative voltage the field will point from
the positive toward the negative and Delta V the difference of potential here is simply going to be
the plus minus V minus.
All right.
And now this wire here has a particular length.
I don't know what it is let's call it Al and let's assume that that field is fairly constant throughout
that conductor.
Actually the magnitude of the field is related to the potential difference the magnitude of the field
is related to what is the voltage difference between the two sides divided by the length of the wire.
Now if I go ahead now and I substitute that into my first equation equation 1 to call this equation
to substitute this into my top equation which you end up getting here is that the potential difference
divided by the length is equal to the resistivity the current and divided by the area.
Now what I'm going to do on the left hand side here I'm just going to bring the length on the other
side and what you get is delta V is equal to I'll open a bracket and then I'm going to have a current
over here and determine the bracket Here's the resistivity the length and divided by the area.
This equation over here this is also another form of Ohm's law.
So we have one form over here.
They're actually the exact same equation.
They might not look like it but they really are the same.
And let's link them together like this.
OK.
Now the quantity and the bracket this is how we define the resistance of material the resistance of
a material can simply be written as the reason Stephenie.
That's a property of the material multiplied by these other two factors the length and divided by the
area.
So we have a property of the material here for the resistivity and then you have another term the length
divided by the area which is basically only associated to the geometry of that particular conductor
of that material.
Now this other term over here Delta V A lot of times you can simplify that a lot of times people drop
the Delta and they simply write Ohm's law.
Let me make some more space over here.
Let's delete this.
We know it's a conductor.
Let's get rid of that.
Now a lot of times what happens is instead of writing Delta V the simply write the letter V.
However it's always really meant that it's always a difference of potential between two points or between
two surfaces down.
That equals to the Terman the bracket is the resistance and then we're left with the current.
This here is really the more classic definition of Ohm's law.
So let's make that very very important equation for conductors.
It tells you that the amount of current that you get is directly proportional to the potential difference
that you apply between the ends of the conductor.
In other words it tells you that the magnitude of the electric field or the magnitude of the current
that you're going to get basically is linearly dependent with the magnitude of the electric fuel that
you produce.
So these equations are really the same equation.
They're just kind of slightly written differently.
And again this is the approach to link one equation to the other.
Often you drop the delta but it's always V is a voltage but it's really a voltage difference between
two ends.
Sometimes you call this a potential difference.
The resistance remember is given down here by my simple equation.
It depends on the resistance hero.
It depends on the length of the wire.
The longer you make it the more resistance there is.
That makes sense.
Think about this other term the area.
Why would the resistance go down if I make the area big.
Imagine I have a really big cross-section where the resistance goes down because there's more paths
for that electron to take as it travels through the wire.
If the area is small the resistance tends to be big.
All right the resistance is big because there's only one kind of path for that electron to take as it
flows through this wire.